We had the good fortune of catching up
with Christine Page again,
this time talking to her about her new book
2012 and the Galactic Center.
With all of the different interpretations of
what this date means Christine emphasizes
that 2012 is a time for the release of aspects of our lives
that no longer serve us.
She says these powerful energies will give us
the capabilities of reaching into our highest potential.
But first we have to answer some deeper questions.
(calm music)
Thank you for coming back again, Christine.
I really appreciate it.
The book that you've written, the newest one
I was reading recently,
you brought up so many salient points,
so many areas of consideration that we can
barely scratch the surface.
But really one of my favorite parts of the book
is in the very beginning when you're talking about
something if a person's not paying attention
they won't understand is a dream.
But a really, truly, deeply profound dream in which you are
transmission of a lot of information, right?
That's right.
And there was one toward the beginning of it,
can I just go ahead and read this one little sentence
and then we'll launch into conversation?
He was saying to you many fail to appreciate
the realm of possibilities readily available to them
preferring to live within the illusory state
of security offered by the familiar,
the familiar experience, and it went on from there.
And this is really critical to the time we're entering.
Can you talk about that from your perception
after you were given the information?
I'm going to launch a little bit into 2012
which I think is really much why we're here,
the book 2012 and the Galactic Center.
As we're going through this time
the alignment that's happening between the sun
and the galactic center which is so close,
the closer alignment than we've had for 26,000 years
it's as if all the veils between the dimensions
are just dissolving.
And we know that not only is time speeding up
but it's also dissolving.
So we are getting to a place where
there is only now and people, of course,
have spoken about that.
But that space is very difficult
for any of us to hang on to.
We're so familiar with our past and our future
and here we sit in the middle of it
and that's the illusion.
And for the Incas I remember Alberto Velarde say
the Incas can't understand why people
would want to make time linear.
They believe they stand in the middle
and time exists around them,
and I very much go along with that belief
of us being in the center and all what we call past life
so even future lives are just different petals
of my flower.
But for us to go there it takes that mindset to say
if you didn't have to be driven by your past
or worry about your future
what would you do today?
And that's what you mean.
I have chores to do, something with that.
A familiar journey is to go back to
I am doing this because of the past
and because I'm setting something up for the future.
As we are dissolving those paradigms
are shifting at such a rate that we're seeing instant karma.
We're seeing even more of an instant,
things are happening for us to change the past.
So it's not just a present but what we see
of this new world that's coming in that the Maya talk about
starting with 21st of December 2012
what they call the fifth world.
It's a world where there's going to be
fusion of polarities where all is going to be accepted
which means we can no longer separate ourselves
between me and you.
I am gonna feel the effect of my actions
on you immediately,
and not from a place of guilt but of a case of
well, if I do that to you it affects me.
That familiarity is being our separation.
Yes, and that's referring back to that
part of the passage that most people will find
comfort still in spite of the opportunity and the familiar.
And in the field of separation.
Yes.
Separation between them and somebody else
or them and their god.
I think the last 2,000 years of the Piscean Age
have been probably the most separative worlds
that we've ever had.
And we've projected our stuff our on the world
and then gone to war against it.
And when you talk about 2012
you're not talking about that particular date.
But again, as you were told in this beautiful experience,
this is a period that lasts almost 40 years,
36 years as I recall, right?
That's right.
And it started in the 1980s
and it culminates in the 2020s.
And we're somewhere along there,
we're more toward the latter half.
And indeed I think if almost anybody
looks back at the last 20 years
you can see changes of every kind in every way.
Nonetheless we tend to hold on to our version of that
as though we're hanging on for dear life.
But let's talk about what was meant.
What started happening in the 1980s
that you observed?
So from an astronomical point of view
what we feel is the sun started its passage
across the front of the galaxy.
And according to the Maya we can see it ourselves
if you look up on a really clear night
where there's no other lights around,
you get the opportunity to see the dark rift,
and that's interstellar dust.
And it looks like a road,
so they called it the Black Road.
And the Mayas see that Black Road is heading
straight into the galactic center
and that we are heading along that black road.
We've been on it now certainly since the 1980s.
For many cultures they see the Milky Way
as the Great Mother,
and so they see that Black Road as a vagina,
so we are heading in.
Or if you want to see it as the mouth of the great serpent,
the same idea you're being swallowed
by the great serpent or the great jaguar.
And from that period of the 1980s,
and I have to say this in variability but
we all know that there was the Harmonic Convergence
in 1987 where it was said that 144,000 light beings
woke up and people after said, "Is it me?"
And of course, it was not--
It got some notions going.
It did.
Everybody wanted it to be me.
To me it was much more that the 12 chakras woke up,
and the 12 bodies of the 12 chakras woke up
creating a 144 light beings.
So we went from a seven dimension to a 12 dimension
and we have all been expanding to that 12th dimension
ever since.
And I think that we then see is the speeding up
taking place at the rate of the golden means.
So everything gets divided by 0.618.
So the speeding up hasn't just been yearly
as we're all saying.
No, it's exponential.
I'm always saying you shouldn't have thrown
your Christmas tree out because you need it tomorrow.
Don't get rid of anything.
What I feel that 2012 represents is this birth
of this new world according to the Maya.
But it's like the dark moon.
The day that we see the last slither of the old moon
we then have this period of darkness
when we don't see a moon.
And to me that birth is happening
in the middle of that dark moon.
As represented by the three nights of darkness.
There we go.
And then a day and a half later
you start the new moon.
So three days of darkness
and of course we're here now in Easter,
we're talking about this, this is the same period of time.
Except that Easter was put at the wrong place,
it should've been at a new moon
and then not to a full moon, a new another story,
but we should be at this moment in time.
It's Good Friday today.
Yes, it is Good Friday today.
And indeed it's been good.
Just been switched to Christianity wise to the wrong end.
But it is good and this will be similar to 2012
which is the birth of a new.
So it's going from death to rebirth
which is what all of this was about.
And yet humanity isn't really quite
prepared to take on the death part of it.
Nope, I found, I've spoken to a lot of people
who say I do transformation.
I say, "So you're into death?" they say no.
"I don't do death, I just do fresh, new birth."
And it feels like they just want to go back,
the caterpillar-butterfly, caterpillar-butterfly.
They don't wanna do the cocoon.
And the cocoon is essential.
I mean, we all know that you have to break down
the structure in order to create a new.
And I'm watching that happening as
this alignment that we've been also watching
which is Pluto going into Capricorn.
That happened beginning of last year which is 2008
and then back again in October 2008
and it's gonna go on to 2023 where Pluto
the planet of transformation, death, rebirth
is going through Capricorn, the sign of structure and rules
and beliefs.
And I'm watching, myself included,
everybody being taken down into their own underwold
to face that which they have preferred to avoid
so that they can die to the old.
So we're having to die to the old
to go into this underworld to meet ourselves
so that we can be reborn.
What happens when you decide
"I don't want to do that.
"I don't want pain, I don't want inconvenience.
"I will continue to do the things I like doing."
I'm going to maybe dance or take drugs
or go out and drink cocktails with my friends or whatnot.
What happens then?
Have you met Pluto recently? (laughs)
Just to let you know that Pluto also
is not masculine, it's feminine.
It was only during the Greek and Roman times
that they actually put a God in the underworld.
Prior to that it was every other culture
has the goddess in the underworld,
big, dark crone.
And the word "pluto" actually comes from "Plutonius"
which means a gem.
And so what she's saying is I am the repository.
I hold your gems.
You have to come down here to get them.
And the gems are our consciousness.
So if you're covering it up with cocktails
and cosmopolitans with the girl friends
highly unlikely she's coming to come to you.
But she will make you uncomfortable.
Oh she will make you extremely uncomfortable.
If you choose not to do this journey.
Let's talk about what that looks like
and what you see around you.
And the biggest challenge is our beliefs.
I mean, truly I'm watching any of us,
and again I don't ever exclude myself from this,
but my belief or anybody's belief
is a part of a Capricorn structure.
So, "Oh look how much I'm doing for humanity."
Pluto says, "We've got some different plans."
And really as I'm in my work of helping people
I'm watching people suffer.
I mean whether it's the loss of their jobs
or loss of their homes
but in some ways that's material.
It's when you have nothing to believe in,
when your beliefs are being shattered.
And we go, "Hang on."
And what she says is I will strip the meat
from your story until we get down to the gems.
And I don't care that you try and hang on to that story
because she is the great vulture who's gonna strip it away.
And you may feel, "I'm unloved"
or "God doesn't love me," or "I've done something wrong."
And what I've heard from the Great Mother
is she's saying is, "No, you don't even know
"how much I love you.
"I"m doing this because I love you."
And it's that love that she said I will not be
less than you are.
And this applies to every ascention
being on this planet?
We're in the middle.
We just say we're just around Easter at this time
but we've been through winter.
And you don't see a planet going, "Oh my leaves! My leaves!
"Can I stick them back on again?"
Nature kingdoms understand it
like the moon cycle understands it.
But human beings think that they can live
in a 24-7 world and nothing ever has to shift.
But what really has to be in place
is a clearer understanding of what lies on the other side.
And that's what's missing from the stories
because so far we have very limited ideas
of what death brings into a life.
Historically we're looking at a finality in a lot of cases,
dust to dust.
We're looking at a fairly tale and others.
And without the grounding of understanding
what's possible by reaching down into our selves,
isn't it hard to have the motivation
to go through the pain, the introspection necessary?
I would agree.
I'm just feeling about my own,
the people who have died in my life,
I've had a lot of deaths in my life
and I just know I would not be where I am now consciously
had it not been for those people dying.
Now, did I miss them?
Absolutely.
Did I grieve?
But the fact is for instance when my father died
when I was relatively young,
if he had stayed alive I would not have had the courage
to step out as I did.
Had my mother not died when she chose to
I would not be here in America.
Now I see that again from my own psychic abilities
working with people that many a time
we would not be where we were now
had it not been for a situation.
And of course having worked with medicine
now for 30 years people would tell me
that illness took me in to a new place.
Our challenge is grief.
But grief is a healthy way of dissolving the old story
in order for us to experience a new one.
And we need to go through grief.
And I feel that people talk about the planetary changes.
For instance like floods and earthquakes and volcanoes,
but they're all the qualities of grief.
Water, fire, earth.
We need to go through those in order to actually
move in to another space.
So no I'm not gonna promise anybody
but there's gonna be a better world
but there's nobody who would be listening,
who would not be thinking, yeah,
that situation, however hard it was at that time
took me to a place that I wouldn't have gone otherwise.
Let's talk about nephology
because there have been poems and legends
and music and glyphs of all sorts from times past
to these apop periods of history for us today
to look at and to be,
and to gather some wisdom from.
And a lot of these myths, as you say,
until relatively recently were definitely
matriarchaly centered, right?
Patriacharly?
Matriarchaly.
(crosstalk)
Yeah, until the patriot started coming in.
Can you talk about some of what's been left behind
for us in our understanding because this book
is very oriented toward understanding the dark goddess even,
I mean the elements of the feminine that have a
destructive element to it.
Let's begin that part of the conversation
because this is a big part of the book.
I may not necessarily go in to the destructive right away.
Yeah, no, that's okay.
Just the triple goddess.
I want to say that the balance between a male and female
has to now be, there needs to be a sacred marriage.
And the way I see it is that the mail
has his journey, what we call the hero's journey.
But he always does that through the vehicle of the feminine.
And he cannot journey through this period
of transformation without the feminine.
if you think of it birth has always been
a quality of the feminine as is death.
Every woman has experienced menses
and gone through cycles of birth and death
which she understands that it's more difficult
from a masculine side to understand.
So my masculine loves journeying, doing things,
but it's the feminine now that has to come
into play for us to go through this
tremendous time of transformation.
And there are the three qualities of the triple goddess.
The Great Mother, why we relate to her is, again,
because the Maya believe that the Milky Way
is the Great Mother and that we are facing at the moment
the heart of the Great Mother which is the center.
So it's really saying we need to get to the heart of her
and we do it through her three faces.
The first face is the virgin,
the second the mother, and third the crone.
And the virgin is the part which we recall
a creative part of us.
I like to think of her as our intuition.
She often will come through,
her significance was in Athena who as many people know.
But Athena was actually a much older goddess
called Pallas Athena.
And Pallas Athena, like all the great goddesses
always arose from out of the waters.
The story goes that when she went into the patriarchy
she realized that intuition which is what she carries
from the heart would not survive.
So she became swallowed, over swallowed within her mother
and she gives her father Zeus a headache
and they chop off the top of his head
and out comes Athena fully armored over her heart.
And now wisdom is always seen in the head.
And I think that's the symbolism that a lot of us
both as men and women are coming back to trusting
our intuition at the virgin, through our heart.
And I just want to say something that surprised me
that the word virgin actually means to be complete
unto yourself without the need for another
to make you whole.
And I thought, wow, what would that be like
if every child that came on to this planet was told
"you are welcome as a unique individual
"that doesn't need another person to make you whole."
Yes, absolutely.
What a difference that would be.
Absolutely.
But unfortunately the mother, which we get to next,
often gives a very different signal to the child
and their own need to be needed on an emotional level
on our plane.
Let's talk about what the mother and the goddess
realm is actually like.
The mother and the goddess role,
she probably is the one that's got most of the press,
doesn't she?
If people look at the feminine it'd be Mother Mary
or the mother image, the Dimitri character,
the Isis character.
But interestingly not only does she give us nurturing,
that's what everybody knows of her,
Her Abundance.
And this is a time for abundance.
But she also carries the cornocopia.
She carries the harvest.
And once I looked at that I thought, "That's interesting."
She's not just saying I'll create this but
you've also got harvest.
And that makes me realize that I need to use
the mother quality to eat the fruits of my endeavors,
to enjoy what I do.
And I'm not always good at that.
I'm really good at creating but I don't always
take the time to stop to be nurtured
by my creations.
And to me that's a really important part,
this balance that the mother asks for us,
time to work and time to play.
And she's saying if we come from a place of poverty
we always are working because we have such a fear
of taking time out.
And she's saying the more time you take out
the more abundance will come.
That's such an important message
certainly in Western culture we don't get that.
I think the Eastern cultures at least certainly spending
time in India they seem to understand innately
the value of having time.
Yes.
And we've forgotten.
Yeah, I often relate it to the heart because
the outer vessels, the blood vessels of the heart,
would I relate to the mother quality
they're the coronary blood vessels.
And interestingly the heart itself only ever gets
fed during the relaxation phase called diastole.
Isn't that interesting?
Our increase in heart disease
is because nobody's taking time out to relax.
Yes, that's such an important point.
I hope everybody has a pencil out right now
sketching it anywhere even on the palm of their hand.
This is really critical to us.
Otherwise how do you have time to reflect even
and use the other virginal part.
Yes, exactly.
I just like to say to men that the erection
is also caused during relaxation.
And our whole increase in drugs,
performance would actually not be needed
if every man realize that actually his performance abilities
are increased during the relaxation phase.
Thus, the vacation to Hawaii.
It is.
(laughter)
Parasympathetic.
But still this would be something
that is innate part of our lives everyday.
This period, the downtime, as it were,
to rest and enjoy the fruits of our labors.
Yes, and that's so hard.
I meet so many people and I go,
"How do you celebrate what you've done?"
"Oh I don't."
Because they've been told it's big-headed,
it's not that important, anybody could've done it.
Or afraid if you take your eye off the ball
it'll go away.
And that's the ego.
And want to just say that the ability to celebrate
what you've done is the ego, not something
that you should try and get rid of it
literally is the marriage between the idea
and the matter.
The ego is "I did it."
The genuine ego.
You need to have that for your own growth and survival.
And that somebody, if they don't have an ego
you basically cannot do the whole cycle.
Again, what the mother is saying is,
"Feed yourself at harvest time because that's what's going
"to get you through the winter."
And I think just as I did a moment ago
that that word is often really misused
when we're talking about an unhealthy fear or attachment
and we're calling it ego.
And I apologize for that 'cause that's actually inaccurate.
But nonetheless, it is a fear, it is a fear
that keeps us in that space of not allowing ourselves
to celebrate and take the time for ourselves.
So we get that one, I hope loud and clear.
Are you finished with the mother?
Let's go to the crone?
Yes, so the crone, I've started to talk about her.
If I come back to my virgin, the virgin
carries the blueprint of what you're here to do,
the completeness of yourself without the need
for another to make you whole.
So what I see it's like, before you came down here
you created a jigsaw lid, all right,
and then you came down here and you said,
"I know what I'm gonna do down here."
You come down here and you got 5,000 pieces
and no jigsaw lid (laughs).
And of course that's why we need our intuition.
It was like, "Now what was I gonna do (laughs)?"
And so that jigsaw lid is often called
the spiritual blueprint, the higher self,
my guidance holds it.
But it's that that we said, "I will come down
"and bring heaven unto earth.
"I will manifest it."
And the only way we know what we're here for
is through what we call intuition in a guidance,
in a voice, in a wisdom, whatever.
But it's the virgin, will be there tapping on your shoulder
and saying, "I don't think those two bits go together."
(laughter)
And we go, "Yes, they do.
"I can force them (laughs)."
We all know what that feels like.
And then we even build a whole story around it (laughs).
Of why we had to do it that way.
And everybody else is going, "Are you sure?"
And we go, "Yes."
(laughter)
It could fit.
And I was thinking, I was a knitter,
I was a really bad knitter but I was a knitter,
and you know if you did knit and you'd finished
and then you saw this hole and you knew you dropped
that stitch way back and it takes courage.
It takes courage to take it off the needle
and it take it all the way back to pick up that stitch.
That's a good analogy.
And that to me is what we're doing.
So when I speak about, when you speak about,
let's just stay on a superficial level,
we're just wanting to say it's all fine and say,
"Everybody knows and we know that we dropped that stitch."
Well if we didn't know society
and the crumbling of the institutions
are certainly reflecting it back to us at this time.
You talked about the crone a moment ago
and it's interesting because certainly in the United States,
I don't know how it is in England or the rest of the West,
but that word has been associated with witch
and ugliness and undesirability on every level.
And there's a really, I'm sure as soon as you say crone,
a lot of the females watching this are thinking,
"Oh I don't want to be a crone."
What is the mythology that happened there?
I think of Carly of course who is having sex
as she eats the entrails of her husband.
(laughter)
Given PR people.
There is a less attractive side to it
is what you're saying.
She is about destruction, she is about destruction
and that is what people are so scared of.
But she is also the outbreath.
I see people saying, "I just do inbreaths,"
because she is related to expiration; death outbreath.
When you say that even,
this is a little story, but every now and then
I have to give myself an injection of Cortisol
because I have this issue.
And I'm in a weakened state, very weakened
when I have to do that.
And I had put all of my paraphernalia for this
into a lunch box.
I don't know why I never looked at the imagery,
it was an image of colion.
(laughter)
And when it came time to use it it really took me down
into a very worsened state.
I eventually slathered another picture over it.
I shoulda just thrown the lunch box out.
But it was interesting because of that
subconscious programming that it was actually
taking me closer to a state of death quite literally.
Exactly, exactly.
Just to see the imagery
and know what collie is.
Yes, exactly, exactly.
And we're afraid of that.
We are.
And as I said it's so ridiculous
because we do it 18 times a minute;
we breathe out, we die.
But then cultures that have failed to understand
the success.
For instance, we tend to wear black,
other cultures wear white at death.
The understanding that this is a new birth,
the understanding of the movement.
And of course a lot of that is beamed
because people have changed their story
about whether there are other lifes.
Yes, this is a big component of it.
Do you care to talk about that?
Because you really have done a lot of work personally,
but you've come to understand the wheel
of our complicity and the portrait
of what we actually are at this time.
With the parts, what we want to disown,
are often the parts of ourselves
that we may have experienced before, for example.
And I speak to those who have no belief in past lives
and I bless you and love you for it.
But I've worked too long now either as a doctor
or even in psychology and thinking,
"How can you make sense of this from the life
"that this person has led?"
And I feel that there's been some bad management
where they have taken something that was very small
to make it big in order to fit this story
when you can't fit it to the story.
So I say I don't mind if people don't believe in other lives
and there's only one.
But frankly, it's hard to explain an awful lot.
And that it can do harm by not explaining that.
I don't mind if we call it past and future lives.
Again, I think we have as many future lives,
or if we wanted to see them as lives in one
around the center would be another way of looking at that.
I'm gonna take it right out and just saying,
I believe here we are as highly evolved eternal beings;
making a choice to be in this particular life,
this most amazing lives of 26,000 years, and we said,
"I will go and finish my karma for the last 26,000 years."
And that could be a thousand lifes, who knows, few lifes.
But I'm coming down here and I'm gonna do all of that.
And I can just imagine my guidance saying,
"Are you sure?
(laughter)
"You're gonna do it all in one life?"
And I went, "Easy."
You're saying, "Oh my God, she's up.
"Let's get going."
(laughter)
'Cause they now forgot the lid and it was like,
"Excuse me, beam me up (laughs).
"Can I have a lid?"
So the idea that we came here,
again I appreciate the people who do not believe
that they chose their family or they chose
when they were gonna be born or where.
If you don't, God bless you for that.
I'm saying is, I don't think anybody ever made a mistake
by the choices they made.
I would agree with that.
Because if you're coming from a highly evolved place
you could not have made a mistake.
Therefore, I don't deem that you could make a mistake
about getting ill.
I think you don't have some mistake as,
"Wow, how did I get ill?"
You chose a path.
Coming from that, what we do is that we said,
"I will bring my blueprint down onto earth
"and I will create a world based on my blueprint."
And what we do is we create something and we go,
"That's mine," we celebrate it and we love it,
and we go, "I did that," and we own it.
And then we go, "Who on earth did that (laughs)?"
I didn't do that.
I didn't do that (laughs).
Children learn that very early.
It wasn't my fault (laughs).
So we pick and choose which parts of our creation
that we will own, take ownership of.
The problem is that we now have bits of ourselves
out in the ethos, out in the stories
and we aren't taking ownership.
So this life is a life for owning all the parts
that become separated.
Because if we don't, this is part of my light,
so if I don't take ownership of that piece of my light
I can never be a fully enlightened being.
And to me that's every wise person, every master
who took ownership of their pieces.
And I see darkness, not ask something that's negative,
I say it's that part of you that's still hidden to you,
what you really meant was that part of me
still in the shadows.
What's happening now is that those pieces,
if we don't own them they own us.
So then people tell me a story, it's like,
"Wow, these things happen to me,
"why do they keep happening?"
And I can see that they're trying to get your attention.
And what we tend to want to do is just move them away
and we go, "Whoa, it's happening a lot."
It's like, yeah, they're really trying
to get your attention.
And the reason we don't want to own them
is usually a shame, a fear, a fear for own power
and unless--
Fear of change.
And unless we own them, we can never be whole.
And what there is happening at the moment
they are coming at us now, they are showing up.
Either in reflections from other people or through,
I have to say, illness or through our own, unconscious,
we're dreaming about them,
"I have dreams of people chasing me,"
it's like, "Yeah, that's part of you.
"Don't let it catch you."
And even in people who perhaps have always wanted
to see only the good in people or the light,
where if we have judgment of somebody else
it's a part of us awaiting integration.
So that when I might make a statement and saying,
"I'm a good person," you're really referring
that there's somebody else out there that's not.
Once we make that separation, we're talking
about a part of ourselves we don't want to own.
This is huge.
Because it's almost an uncomfortable aspect
of introspection.
Yes, it is.
And of course in this country especially,
we're really good at pointing fingers.
Those people over there are the evil ones,
we're the good guys.
That is what's gonna have to stop.
'Cause collectively we have created all of it.
And anything that we judge in another person
we are seeing ourselves.
So if I have an emotional reaction to anything or anybody
it's a part of me awaiting integration.
We could all go to the same movie, we come out and I'd say,
"God, did you see that person?"
And you'd say, "No, I didn't see that character.
"I was so caught up in this character."
We can only see what we already know.
Absolutely.
So our perceptions will all be different.
So whenever I might have a passion for something,
I want to help those who are poor,
I have to say, "Where is the poor in me first."
If I have an unfairness about this,
I have to look at where's it's not fair for me.
And if I heal me, I heal the world.
It's a much quicker way than running around
trying to do it in other way.
It is, it is.
I mean, through the years I certainly find
that I try to be much speedier in reacting.
When these things knock on my door, it's like,
"Okay, I'm not gonna fight you on that one.
"We'll just flow with it."
It saves you a lot of heartache, a lot of pain.
I meet a lot of people who want to save the planet.
Well, we're walking around with it.
We were given our own little planet to take care of.
We have a tree which is our bronchi and our lungs,
and we have bones which are our stones,
and we have water which is our blood flow.
Before we save the planet could we just have a relationship
with our body which is earth, fire, air and water.
Everything is in here.
If we had a better relationship with our body
the planet would respond.
Absolutely.
But while we look in the mirror and go, "Ahh."
Or we battle with our body, or we suffer from,
or we struggle from, or we beat up on our body
that's what will happen in the outer world.
And that is what's happening
in the outer world.
And we look at the misuse of energy--
With the planet.
Then we misuse energy.
We do not feed our body in the way that would help.
The body is literally a reflection and vice versa.
Where does the masculine/feminine
come into play in this, just what you've been saying?
In terms of our relationship with the body?
I think it's more a psyche that has stepped out
of that journey that there's such an emphasis on doing
and achieving.
Which is the masculine way.
If I may, I can just say that there are two sides
of the masculine.
The piece that we probably know the most, Joseph Campbell,
and he did write about the other side,
but people keep talking about "The Hero's Journey",
"The Hero's Journey" is only the inbreath.
So it's taking an idea, as the little boy child
becoming the hero and becoming king.
And especially in this country again
and in other Western countries,
this emphasis on the success of the hero.
He did it with one leg, he did it without.
They never talk about the second half.
Let's talk about that.
Which is the king must die.
And we talked earlier about how the ancient mythologist
such as Sumerian mythologist and more ancient
all talked about the king must die.
And the king dying is from the summer solstice
around to the winter solstice.
And at the winter solstice you have the birth
of the new child.
So every culture understood the dying king
in order to give birth to the new.
But many of our Western worlds
have just cut off the second half.
We don't do that part.
Not gracefully.
If I may just share a couple of stories with you.
Yes, please.
First of all of course, the Jesus story
was all based on that.
That he knew that the crowning of him as king,
he knew that signed his deathward.
He knew he was following that story of the king must die.
He was just enacting that.
Stonehenge was set up to be particularly important
during the summer solstice where there was a huge pillar,
and basically it was at the time of recognizing
that this was the ultimate of the king, the son,
and now the son must die.
So the ancient people understood that.
Or you went to Newgrange in Ireland
and that welcomed in a new sun
in the time of the winter solstice.
So most of these Celtic and druid understandings.
And then there was a story of Perceval
and the Perceval story where it came out of the 1200s,
very much at the time where the feminine was quite strong
and Perceval, if I may just tell the story,
was a young boy whose father was a knight
and the knight was killed and so his mother
didn't want her son to ever die or to become a knight,
so she took him into the deep, deep woods.
And she brought him up in a very simple way,
staying away from the city.
And one day he's out hunting and of course
he suddenly sees these three knights walk by
and he's only ever heard of angels so he says,
"You must be angels."
And they say, "No, we're knights."
Of course he's now seen them and he said,
"That's it, I'm gonna become a knight."
His mother is distraught and he says,
"You can't stop me."
And that's very symbolic of that as he steps fully
into his light, which is the light of the new moon,
she, the dark moon, must disappear.
So there's often she dies at his expense of growth.
Well of course Perceval goes off to the,
probably the knight,
King Arthur and his round table and his court.
And of course he comes, he's very clumsy,
and he's always asking questions and they all said,
"Just stop asking questions.
"That's your problem."
So he grows into being a better knight.
And then one day he's on his way back
to see his dying mother and he crosses the river
and he finds that somebody can help him
and of course it's some fisherman who say,
"If you want to find somewhere that you could stay.
"You can stay in my castle."
And that castle, when he goes to it,
he sees that the fisherman of course is the king,
that this is the fisher king.
The fisher king is wounded and they say he's wounded
in his groin, which of course he's impotent,
which basically means he has all that he ever needs
but he can't die from his wound.
And during the evening where there is abundance,
Perceval sits there, and because he's been told
to keep his mouth shut, he never asked the king,
"What's wrong with you?
"What ails the king?"
And then in front of him comes the Holy Grail,
and again because he's been told to keep quiet
he never says, "Who does the grail serve?"
And he goes to bed and when he wakes up
the whole castle or everybody within it has disappeared
and the castle has fallen into disrepair.
And he leaves and he meets an old crone who says,
"Why didn't you ask the questions?"
'Cause if he had asked the questions
he would have healed the king.
And he then starts the journey which is the journey
of King Arthur's knights.
So each of the 12 knights, of course the 12 aspects
of King Arthur.
And Perceval grows into the great hero
and he grows and he grows until there's nobody
that he cannot kill.
And by now he's become Lancelot.
And he eventually has just one knight that he needs to kill
and it's called the Dark Knight.
And he meets the Dark Knight and he knocks him off the horse
and he's about to strike him when the helmet falls off
and he sees it's himself.
And he realizes that he is the Dark Knight
and he takes off his armor and he actually
goes into the woods.
And that point is this key where people might have
a dark knight to the soul.
This is the face that many people are going through
at this time of really feeling their life is falling apart,
even though they may have everything they've got nothing.
It's like it doesn't matter if you're
the best knight anymore.
And that's what people are feeling that--
A lot of people are experiencing this now.
Yes, I might have all of this but I've got nothing.
So they're entering in the first face,
as the face of the lover, and it goes lover,
sage, magician.
And these are male energies.
And I just want to mention the lover that at that point
when you're going to a dark night to the soul,
nothing matters outside you, your friends may tell you,
"Don't do it, we liked you as you were (laughs)."
"Why not just come back and be a knight again,"
and your family may not understand.
And what I've understood is that inside each of us
there has to be a love for ourselves that is deep enough
and profound enough for us to go into the dark presence
of the crone, of the dark goddess.
And it's that love that's being called on upon
at the moment.
So this isn't a journey to go to the crone
and just have it rip you apart.
This is a conscious choice to say,
"That outer world no longer makes sense to me.
"That outer world no longer holds me in its grip."
But to go into the underworld there has to be an "I",
there has to be a love of "I" for me to do that.
And it's not about God loving me or my angels loving me,
it's got to be something inside you or me.
'Cause that's what will sustain you
through that journey.
That's all there is.
And what I see is that at this particular time,
there's been such a disassociation between me
and my outer world.
I can become my outer world.
So many people are their outer world that the "I" is dead,
that the light has almost gone out.
And that is what is needing to be enhanced and held,
the light of the heart.
But it's the heart for yourself.
That's the most powerful piece of this journey
because you can't find it outside, it has to be within.
Would it be appropriate at this point
to take a feminine version of the tale,
a simplified version, one that many of us
are still hostage to in the simplest terms
which is Snow White or Sleeping Beauty,
the crown, the apple, death, awakening to Prince Charming,
what's that about?
Again, all of those stories were changed a lot.
I can certainly take the Sleeping Beauty story
who'd be awoken by the kiss.
But the idea was that always it was the feminine
who was more willing to go into the underworld
to meet her dark sister.
And it was through the feminine that the masculine then
could do the journey.
So that in the times perhaps of Isis
it would be Isis or her priestesses would go
into the underworld first, then they could then
be the container for the masculine to do the work
and I will say between men and women.
So if I wanted a kin to come back,
from a Christian point of view,
Mary Magdalene had to do her work first
before she could be the vessel for Jesus
to go through his underworld.
And that it was always that women were able to do that work
because of their deep relationship to the menstrual cycle,
their understanding that this cycle is very relevant.
And that they recognize that during the moon time,
the menses, that was the death
and then there would be rebirth.
They hadn't forgotten.
Whereas the masculine part of us forgets that
or doesn't want to appreciate that there could be
such a cycle.
One of the stories that of course got very twisted
was the Persephone story, the triple goddess of Kore,
Demeter and Persephone, the Greek story.
Well of course here they say, well, Persephone,
or Kore, the virgin, was up playing in the little garden.
She sees a narcissist and all of a sudden Pluto comes up
out of the underworld and takes her down there
and rapes her, and the story continues of course
of Demeter grieving for her.
But that story was just a Greek story
'cause it's a much more ancient story that says
that Demeter and her mother and Persephone were helping
and Persephone says, "There's a whole lot of dead people
"wandering around here, who's helping them?"
Demeter says, "Well I'm supposed to be
"but I'm so busy up here."
And Persephone says, "Well I'll go down
"and look after them, is that okay with you?"
So her mother is not very happy but she says,
"Yes, you may go."
And Persephone takes with her a poppy and some grains,
but mainly the poppy seeds and the pomegranate.
And she goes down into the underworld
and she just sits in the underworld
and she draws towards her all parts of herself
that had been dead to her.
And she takes the pomegranate juice,
which is if you think of a pomegranate
it is like an ovary with all the eggs inside,
it is the juice of regeneration.
And she puts a little cross on the third eye
and gives these souls, these parts of ourselves,
wings to fly back into life again.
And these stories have got so twisted
that I liked that version which is basically saying,
"We all have to go into our underworld."
And that women do it far more easily
and have the opportunity to do it every month
if we only remember that the moon time is not the curse
or something we need to get rid of.
We need to change our view and terminology.
And yet the men, again through a masculine lens
for certainly millennia throughout history,
the initiation rights from the Ancient Egyptians
up through modern day higher levels of the Masonics and such
are to go through this process of death in the initiation.
I mean, a process of it's gotten somewhat basterdized
in recent times, certainly.
But the idea is to go through this journey
to reach into the darkest points of the being
and touch with death and to emerge victorious
on the other side.
I mean, I have not been part of those cycles
so I don't know quite what they mentioned.
But there were two times--
You go through extreme challenges
in the psyche world and physically and so forth.
But there were two ways in which (mumbles)
and the crone comes into the cycle.
One is when the hero is growing towards the king,
and of course we see a lot of these initiations
in universities, where challenges come at the hero
to meet the parts of him that he is not strong with.
And therefore, he is challenged to refine his strength
so he can be king.
And I think a lot of those initiations are merely ways
of strengthening the hero, not taking him apart.
There's been a tendency to strengthen people up
by making them hide from their psyche.
Many of the 1980s psychological games, test
were I will may strip you so that you can become stronger.
All that happens is the psyche hides
because where shame exist you ain't gonna go there
when someone's battling against you.
Shame only emerges through love,
it only emerges in the heart of the mother.
You're only gonna show your shame when you feel safe.
And you're only gonna let yourself love
those unlovable parts when you feel
that you're not gonna be judged.
And most of those initiation processes
were to judge anything that looked weak.
So I feel that all that happened is that we,
there was a development of a thicker shield
that send the pain deeper so nobody would ever see it.
Interesting.
And I feel that the problem that we have
with post-traumatic stress syndrome,
the stage of the development of the hero,
in a mythological point of view,
is for him to have a strong relationship with the earth
and a strong relationship to spirit.
And in many cultures they would spend the first five years,
the young boy would spend with his mother
being weak, connected to the earth, earth-grounded.
And at that time it would often be
that they would plant a tree and that would be their
first obelisk or their first tree.
And then he'd be handed over to the male
and he would not see his mother again
as he would strengthen up and they planted a second tree
and this was his path; his connection to the earth
and his connection to the sky.
I feel we have lost that in our young men.
And that many of them are not connected
either to the earth fully before they go to war
or to the sky fully.
Absolutely.
And therefore, their ability to have two strong pillars
by which they know who they are,
I think when they go into these war situations
they haven't got a clue.
And my greatest challenge with PTSD
is that we are not recognizing that.
We're just finding ways to send people back to war.
Whereas, what we really should be recognizing
is why is there such an increase in PTSD.
Probably because of these young boys
who are far more conscious spiritually
than perhaps 40 or 50 years ago.
Absolutely.
And are having greater challenges
than perhaps 40 or 50 years ago.
So looking at the cycle--
I keep coming back to the hero, the male--
Let's just fly with that.
Where we are right now, we can see where we are,
we can see what the challenges and the problems are.
What do you see as the opportunity for the female in us
and what is it we should be effectively doing or being
on the feminine side of this equation
as we move through this 36-year cycle
to whatever lies ahead on the other side?
So we have mentioned the mother side,
find balance, make sure you nurture yourself
as much doing as giving.
And in many ways I am saying to a lot of people,
"I don't care what you do for somebody else.
"What do you do for yourself?"
Because if you cannot nurture yourself
that's the level we can nurture someone else.
So I don't care how great a healer you are.
If you are not able to do it for yourself
you can't do it for someone else.
Critical.
And that has to be a starting point
to any healing training or whatever.
The virgin has two different faces.
As I said, both of them have an intuitive face.
In many ways we love the factor of when we say,
"Oh why are you doing that?"
"Oh my intuition said I should.
"I woke up with this idea."
But it's feeding a little bit of our masculine again.
But there is another face with the feminine
which was related to Brigid.
Brigid was a,
is an Irish goddess but she also has many different faces
and different names.
But she was very similar to the Vestal Virgins
and they both kept the fire alive.
And I think that the symbolism of why were these great,
especially the Romans who were so patriarchal,
want to spend all this time keeping these women there
to just keep this fire alive, is that they understood
the power of fire.
And again, if you think of our own mentality
we forget fire, we just take it for granted.
But what they were saying is the fires within the heart;
if you don't feed your heart your fire goes out,
your creativity goes out.
So you have to nurture this.
You have to nurture it.
And it's nurtured by feeding it not only with light
but with darkness.
It's kept alive.
And Brigid is your commitment, your dedication.
You can even look at Vesta in your chart and astrology chart
but Brigid says, "What are you dedicated to?
"What are you committed to?
"What lights your fire?"
And it's not the same as your passion,
it's in the middle of your darkness.
What do you go towards?
Because everybody has something they go towards.
So it's a part of our intuition,
but what is your pilot light?
What makes you tick at the deepest level?
Your deepest fuel, as it were.
Your deepest fuel, not your obsession,
not what do you gonna spend lots of energy on is.
We've all had very dark moments, I'm sure.
In those moments, what is it that gets you out of bed?
What is it that makes you even want to live?
And that's Brigid, Brigid says, "Come on."
She's your cheerleader.
And there's no judgment
as to what that fuel is?
No, she feeds you with something that just goes,
"Ah yes, we're gonna do that."
So the intuition, often we don't notice the candle
when there's bright light, we only notice it in the dark.
I'm all for people.
I really say, "Listen to your heart."
In this time, because we're in this period of dying,
it's not gonna be, "Hey, what should we create?"
Because none of us are creating anything new,
we're all just finishing what we haven't before
in the last 26,000 years so there's nothing new we're doing.
But what is the hardest part is what's dead,
what do we need to die to?
And it's there at the crone and the virgin
with a similar love for us say,
"Come on, what's dead in your life?
"What's not nurturing you?
"What are you doing just because you can
"rather than what you want to do?
"Is your heart in anymore?"
So all of those are speaking to the heart
and they're saying without judgment,
"Don't do it if it doesn't excite you.
"Don't do it if it's not bringing you joy."
Oh this is a scary one
for most people alive today, isn't it?
It is.
And it's not emotional--
Because of the fear or loss of,
usually loss of security i.e. income.
Exactly.
If I do what I want
who's going to pay me to do that?
Exactly, exactly.
And yet people are coming home from their jobs
and saying, "I hate my job."
It's killing them.
And then they lose their job the following day
and they go, "Oh my God, I lost my job."
It's like the universe said, "You wanted to lose your job
"I helped you (laughs)."
I often applaud when that happens
to people these days.
"But you didn't like your job.
"Yippee, now you can do something you love."
But still, I mean, people do have to contend with it.
It's very challenging.
One of the comments I make is, I'd say,
if you want mantra is close all the doors
that are not in harmony with my soul.
And leave open or open those that are.
That's wonderful.
And I say that because why wouldn't you want to do
what was only in harmony of your soul?
And so when the door is shut it's a recognition of,
"Wow, I've been doing all these things
"that weren't in harmony.
"I've been pushing those pieces of the jigsaw together
"that never worked."
And that your soul is saying, "I will help you."
I mean, there is so much help for us at this time.
But we're clinging on to the most ridiculous things
because the key to this is there is so much abundance
out there for us; we will not know ourselves.
Our capabilities, spiritually, are immense
compared with what we are seeing at this moment.
And this is going to get more and more fast
as we move towards 2012.
In February 2012, Neptune goes into Pisces,
Neptune is the planet of dissolving,
Pisces is the sign of tremendous creativity.
Neptune and Pisces they're in together and they go,
"You didn't do anything and yet based on you can do anything
"comes but I don't want anything,
"I want to go back to that old pattern."
Well, that's absolutely appropriate
and lovely.
And the thing is you have, not just this,
but which we have spoken about in the book,
it is a very inspirational journey.
But you go through and allow people
to have a lot of tools to work with
we didn't even have time to get into the notion of geometry
and how geometry serves us through this journey,
astrology on a different level
and how this serves us in the journey.
All of this is detailed in the book.
We've really only talked about the first couple chapters.
(laughter)
And of course some add-ons along the way.
But before we wrap up because we're almost out of tape,
anything you'd like to say beforehand and I
would encourage everybody to just pick up a copy
and do this journey for themselves,
anything you'd like to say as a final thought?
Keep life simple, make it simple.
Everybody's saying the same thing.
Many of us are going back to growing of our own vegetables
and that's not out of fear but reconnecting what is simple,
reminding ourselves it doesn't have to be so complex.
Follow your heart.
That's the hardest one.
Give time to listen to your heart.
So we get busy when we don't like the message its telling us
that we're unhappy.
But the changes that are coming are not to make us
more miserable, there is nothing we've done wrong,
we're not being punished because of our misappropriation
of energy.
We're too caught up in our own issues here.
The earth is going through her transformation,
the sun is going through its transformation,
the galaxy is going through its transformation;
we are just small parts on one level
and yet we are also multidimensional beings;
and this is a time to connect to our galactic beingness,
our star people beingness, where we've come from,
who we are.
If you can imagine it it's probably already happened
and it feels that this is a time to fly,
this is a time to be the unique people we are
and not to compare ourselves with others.
But that will only happen when we take ownership
of the parts of ourselves that we have let go of
and really see this as a journey to wholeness,
not as a journey to destruction.
Couldn't be said better.
Thank you so much, Christine.
Thank you so much, Regina, for having me.
For the full depth of Christine's perspective on 2012,
pick up a copy of her book "2012 and the Galactic Center"
at Amazon or through her site christinepage.com.
For more on 2012, you might also enjoy our interview
with John Major Jenkins.
Until next time.
Thanks for watching CMN.
(calm music)